---
title: Model inference script
internal: true
---

# How to author model inference script

The inference script is where you tell Microsoft DeepDev how to load your model, read the user input and get the results returned by the model.

An entry is a python module which can be loaded and imported by other python script.

For information on how to author the environment YAML file, see [here](#how-to-author-model-inference-environment-file)

## Prerequisites

The `deepdev` package is needed. See [package page](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/OnlineServices/_artifacts/feed/DeepDev/PyPI/deepdev/1.4.0/overview) for installation details.

## Structure

The inference script must be written in python and must contain two functions named `init` and `run`, and a global variable for the model object.

The inference script name must be a valid [PEP8 module name](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#package-and-module-names). It should have a short lowercase name. Underscores are permitted but discouraged. Dashes, dots, and other punctuations will cause errors during deployment.

## `init` function

The `init` function needs to be decorated wiht `@model_init` from `deepdev.services.deploy` and should have exactly one argument that will be populate with the path to the model directory, which contains all the files listed during registration. You do not need to call this function as it will be called by the framework at run time.

The `init` function will populate the global model object which can then be used in the `run` function.

Here is an example of a valid `init` function:

```python
@model_init
def init(model_dir):
    global model
    model = fancy_model_loader(model_dir)
```

Note that the function must be named `init`, but the argument can have any name.

## `run` function

The `run` function takes user input as arguments, and does all necessary preprocessing, such as tokenization, before feeding the data into model. It returns the output generated by the model.

Here is an example of the `run` function

```python
def run(some_input, extra_arg1='default value'):
    input_object = json.loads(some_input)
    if input_object['debug']:
        logging.info(f'Incoming request: {input_object}')
    preprocessed = tokenizer.tokenize(input_object['code'])
    preprocessed = normalize_code(preprocessed)
    output = model(preprocessed, context_length=input_object['context_length'])
    return output
```

> **NOTE: It is highly recomended to define an OpenAPI schema for your run function by providing examples. For more information on how to define a schema through examples, see [Define Inference Schema](/docs/User%20Guides/define-inference-schema)**

## Testing your script locally

It is highly recommended to include a CLI and an executable block in your script, encapsulated by `if __name__ == "__main__"`. While deployment does not require an executable block, having a CLI can help you run the script locally and detect inference issues in advance.

From the `__main__` block, you can call `init` directly with a model_dir, and you can call `run` with sample inputs.

Here is an example of the executable block

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
    parser = ArgumentParser()
    parser = ArgumentParser()
    parser.add_argument("--model_dir", type=str, required=True)
    parser.add_argument("--code_before", type=str, required=True)
    parser.add_argument("--depth", type=int, default=10)
    parser.add_argument("--breadth", type=int, default=10)
    parser.add_argument("--min_tokens", type=int, default=2)
    parser.add_argument("--language", type=str, required=True)
    args = parser.parse_args()
    init(args.model_dir)
    payload = {
        "CodeBefore": args.code_before,
        "SearchDepth": args.depth,
        "SearchBreadth": args.breadth,
        "MinTokens": args.min_tokens,
        "Language": args.language,
    }
    result = run(json.dumps(payload))
    print("Model output: " + result)
```

## How to author model inference environment file

Inference environment must be defined as a conda YAML file. It should define the python environment needed to execute the inference script.

Here is an example of a simple conda YAML file:

```yaml
name: mymodel
channels:
  - conda-forge
dependencies:
  - python=3.8
  - pip:
      - deepdev
      - torch==1.8.0
      - transformers==3.4.0
```

## Testing environment file locally

It is recommended to test the environment locally to make sure that all the necessary packages are included.

To do so, create a new conda environment with the YAML file: `conda env create -f <environment_file.yml>`

Then, execute the inference script and verify the output.
